Add EIP-5252: Account-bound Finance (#5252)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-5190.md

---

> eip: 5190

Reviewer: ```suggestion
eip: 5252
```
EIP numbers are editor assigned.

title: Account-bound Finance
description: A smart contract design pattern in decentralized finance to remove insolvency and arbitrary loss of funds using blockchain technology only. Extension of EIP-4973
author: Hyungsuk Kang (@hskang9)

> discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/

Reviewer: This needs to be a link to a discussions thread.

> discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/

Reviewer: This needs to be a link to a discussions thread.

Author: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/pr-5252-discussion-account-bound-finance/10027

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/pr-5252-discussion-account-bound-finance/10027
```

type: Standards Track
category: ERC
status: Draft

> requires: 721, 1155, 4973

Reviewer 2: EIP-4973 is in Draft. This cannot be moved to a status beyond that of EIP-4973.

Reviewer: If EIP-4973 doesn't move out of draft, this EIP won't be able to move out of draft as well.  If you are OK with this constraint, that is fine, but be aware that references in this EIP should only be to EIPs that are required reading for this EIP.

created: 2022-06-29
---

## Abstract
This EIP proposes a form of smart contract design pattern and a new type account abstraction on how one's finance should be managed in web3.0, ensuring transparency of managing investments and protection with self-sovereignty even from its financial operators.

> This EIP also extends account-bound token from [EIP-4973](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-4973), but the difference is that it can be transferred to other account for mobility between managing device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This EIP also extends account-bound token from [EIP-4973](./eip-4973), but the difference is that it can be transferred to other account for mobility between managing device.
```

## Motivation

> Finance in crypto ecosystem are facing huge trust issue. Smart contracts can be now a proxy of multisig for operating teams, and Insolvencies do exist in that there is no trace of funds written in blockchain. That can create arbitrary loss of funds as happened in official bankruptcy announcement of Celsius and UST depegging and anchor protocol failure. Smart contract should be used for peer-to-peer only, with immutable rules etched so that only one who has the private key has full access of managing his investment as bitcoin promises. 

Reviewer 2: I really can't tell what you're trying to say here. Could you fix the grammar?

Author: It is true that there are some jargons used such as depegging, and insolvencies regarding decentralized finance systems that newcomers cannot understand. Can you clarify what is not understandable from your point of view?

Author: Based on your points, I will add glossaries and more descriptions to the problem.

Reviewer 2: I did mean grammar, as it turns out. The sentences are ungrammatical to the point that I cannot actually make sense of what you're trying to say.

Reviewer: I agree with Pandapip here that as currently written, this paragraph is unintelligible.  While we do our best to help authors who aren't native English speakers clearly express themselves in English, we do need a base to start from that is "good enough" for us to effectively iterate on it.  Unfortunately, this paragraph doesn't meet that bar and so you'll need to figure out a way to get it *good enough* that we can help you improve it further.

My recommendation is to perhaps find a peer who speaks your native language and English and the two of you can iterate on this paragraph together to make it more understandable.

> Illustration TBD

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

No placeholders.

> The pattern empowers more self-sovereignty in users, and gives more credentials(obviously with Account-bound token) than locking financial data in operating team's contract.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The pattern empowers more self-sovereignty in users and gives more credentials (obviously with Account-bound tokens) than locking financial data in the operating team's contract.
```

> Illustration TBD

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

No placeholders.

> Segregation between investor's fund and operating fee is clearly specified in the smart contract, so investors can ensure safety to arbitrary loss of funds by operating team's control.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The separation between an investor's fund and the operating fee is clearly specified in the smart contract, so investors can ensure safety from arbitrary loss of funds through the operating team's control.
```

I think this is what you are trying to say. Can you confirm?

Author: Ah yes Segregation is definitely not the right term.

**`Factory`**: **`Factory`** contract manages contract bytecode to create for managing investor's fund and [clones](https://soliditydeveloper.com/clonefactory/) **`Finance`** contract on **`Manager`** contract's approval. It also mints account-bound token to interact with `Finance` contract.

**`Finance`**: **`Finance`** contract specifies all rules on managing investor's fund. The contract is only accessible with account who has Account-bound token. When an investor deposits fund to **`Manager`** contract, the contract sends the fund to **`Finance`** contract after segregation of fees for operation. 

**`Account-bound token`**: **`Account-bound token`** contract in this EIP can bring **`Finance`** contract's data and add in its metadata. For example, if there is a money market lending **`Finance`** contract, its **`Account-bound token`** can show how much balance is in the contract using SVG.

**`Extension`**: **`Extension`** contract is another contract that can utilize locked funds in **`Finance`** contract. The contract is able to access with **`Finance`** contract on operator's approval managed in **`Manager`** contract.

> ## Reference Implementation
> 
> Reference implementation is a CDP-lending stablecoin project [here](https://github.com/digitalnativeinc/standard-evm/tree/master/contracts/vaults/meter).
> 
> TBD on specification on each component
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
External links not allowed, and this is an optional section so if you don't have a reference implementation inline or in `../assets/eip-5252/`.
